---
title: 0.4.0
slug: 0.4.0
---

### Added

- Generated result data types with an `id: String` property are now generated with a conformance to `Identifiable`, which makes them easier to use in `List` and `ForEach` views.
- Generated structs for `@connection` fields conform to `RandomAccessCollection` if they include a selection of `edges { node { ... } }`. This means that you can replace something like `data.allFilms.edges.map { $0.node }` with just `data.allFilms`. See the [@PaginationFragment](/Relay.swift/docs/api/pagination-fragment) docs for more info.
- Generated query and mutation types now include some convenience extensions to make it easier to work with their variables:
    - The initializer for the operation can take the variables directly instead of having to initialize a variables struct. For example, instead of `UserDetailsQuery(variables: .init(userID: "123"))`, you can write `UserDetailsQuery(userID: "123")`
    - The `get()` method on the wrapped value for the `QueryNext` property wrapper (the beta version of [@Query](/Relay.swift/docs/api/query)) can also take the query's variables directly. For example, instead of `query.get(.init(userID: "123"))`, you can write `query.get(userID: "123")`
- The `QueryNext` property wrapper supports refetching queries by passing in a `fetchKey` parameter to the `get()` method. Whenever the fetch key is changed from the last time `get()` was called, the query will be refetched. One way to use this is to have a `@State` property for the fetch key and have your view change the value (a counter or UUID, perhaps) when it wants to refetch.
- Queries can use two new fetch policies: `.storeOrNetwork` and `.storeOnly`. The former avoids a network request if the data in the local store is complete and valid. The latter always skips the network, and expects the data to be present locally already.
- The `RefetchableFragment` property wrapper has been added to `RelaySwiftUI`. It supports fragments with a `@refetchable` directive in their GraphQL definition. This wrapper is like an ordinary [@Fragment](/Relay.swift/docs/api/fragment) but it includes a `refetch()` method to refetch its data using a generated refetch query.
- `RecordSource` now conforms to `Codable`. This allows a store's records to be saved and loaded to disk, for instance. Until garbage collection is more configurable, this is probably of limited usefulness.

### Changed

- All generated types and methods are now public (previously they had the default internal access). This makes it possible to keep your generated code in a different module like a SwiftPM package.
- Matching `QueryNext`, the `FragmentNext` and `PaginationFragmentNext` property wrappers don't have a projected value anymore (accessed with the `$` prefix). You must now set the key for a fragment property wrapper when it's initialized. This is closer to how Apple's own property wrappers, like `@Binding`, work.

  To make this easier, types that conform to a fragment's `Key` protocol now also generate `asFragment()` methods to create the `FragmentNext` or `PaginationFragmentNext` to pass on to a child view. Using this lets you avoid writing initializers for fragment views in many cases.

```swift
// Before:

struct MoviesTab: View {
    @QueryNext(MoviesTabQuery.self) var movies

    var body: some View {
        switch movies.get() {
        // ...
        case .success(let data):
            if let data = data {
                MoviesList(films: data) // MoviesTabQuery.Data conforms to MoviesList_films_Key
            }
        }
    }
}

struct MoviesList: View {
    @PaginationFragmentNext(MoviesList_films.self) var films

    init(films: MoviesList_films_Key) {
        $films = films
    }

    var body: some View { /* ... */ }
}

// After:

struct MoviesTab: View {
    @QueryNext<MoviesTabQuery> var movies

    var body: some View {
        switch movies.get() {
        // ...
        case .success(let data):
            if let data = data {
                // Use asFragment() to create the PaginationFragmentNext that
                // MoviesList expects.
                MoviesList(films: data.asFragment())
            }
        }
    }
}

struct MoviesList: View {
    @PaginationFragmentNext<MoviesList_films> var films

    // The default initializer is fine now because the parent view is passing
    // a PaginationFragmentNext instead of a fragment key.

    var body: some View { /* ... */ }
}
```

### Fixed

- The garbage collector will now only collect records on the final release of a query (instead of on every release).
- A retain cycle between RecordSourceProxy and its RecordProxy instances has been fixed.