---
title: 0.3.0
---

### Added

- A [MockEnvironment](/Relay.swift/docs/api/mock-environment) is now available to allow for writing tests or SwiftUI previews
- The default `ConnectionHandler` has new methods that can be used to update paged result sets in an `updater` function of a mutation. See the [ConnectionHandler](/Relay.swift/docs/api/connection-handler) docs to learn more.
- Records in the Relay store that are no longer referenced by a visible view will be garbage-collected to free up memory
- [@Mutation](/Relay.swift/docs/api/mutation)'s `commit` function now takes an `onComplete` block that will be called once the network has completed the mutation
- All four SwiftUI property wrappers now have an experimental `Next` variant (e.g. `QueryNext`) that's only available on iOS 14 or later (and equivalent versions of other Apple platforms). These versions use the new `@StateObject` wrapper to let SwiftUI manage the storage of their internal state and tie it to the lifetime of the view. This is more correct than the existing property wrappers, which can sometimes get recreated unnecessarily when other view state changes.

  The API for these new wrappers is experimental and may change. In some future release after these platform versions are no longer in beta, support for iOS 13 will be dropped and these new wrappers will replace the existing ones.

  If you're targeting a minimum of iOS 14 (or equivalent), you can use the new wrappers in your app. You may find it handy to make type aliases to the existing names (which will override the names imported from `RelaySwiftUI`):

```swift
import RelaySwiftUI

typealias Fragment = RelaySwiftUI.FragmentNext
typealias PaginationFragment = RelaySwiftUI.PaginationFragmentNext
typealias Query = RelaySwiftUI.QueryNext
typealias Mutation = RelaySwiftUI.MutationNext
```

### Changed

- The Swift types generated for reading fragment data now implement Swift's `Decodable` protocol rather than a custom `Readable` protocol. The Relay compiler no longer needs to generate `init(from: SelectorData)` methods for all of these types, and in many cases can rely on Swift itself to synthesize an implementation for `init(from: Decoder)`.

### Fixed

- Union and interface types can be used and will generate appropriate Swift types
- `optimisticUpdater` and `updater` functions are now supported in mutations. Previously, they could be passed in but they did nothing.
- The `errors` in a GraphQL response payload are processed and handled correctly.